---
layout: post
title: 'At the BOC'
category: opinions
image: true
image-cat: 'sundry'
archive: true
dated: Sept 03 - 10, 2017
---

Last week Sen. Panfilo Lacson, Jr. delivered at the Senate a diatribe hurled against the Bureau of Customs (BOC) and particularly at its Commissioner Nicanor Faeldon who failed to prevent the entry to the country a shipment of shabu amounting to the tune of P6.4 Billion from China. Lacson divulged also that Faeldon allegedly received millions of pesos as grease money.

Perhaps in his shame and chagrin, Faeldon resigned from his BOC post which was accepted by the President who told him to take a rest in the meantime or marry his constant escort, but  before he resigned he detonated a bomb for all the world to hear that the son of Sen. Lacson had been importing shiploads and shiploads of cement without paying a single centavo for its levy.

The Senator counter acted that levy for cement importation is not covered by the BOC.

A friend of mine who had a stint as an examiner at the BOC head office in Aduana, Manila said as far a she knows all importations had to pass by at the BOC.

The barbs and arrows hurled by Lacson to embarrass and hurt Faelden, of course, flew into the air, but they boomeranged and hit him too. Why did Lacson divulged what was going on at the BOC when he himself and his son had skeletons in their closets? Is he to get even with Faelden  regarding cement importation? Why is he grinding an ax for Faelden? The motto to recall here is: Do not do to others what you do not want others do unto you.

Corruption and bribery is rampant at the BOC, my friend divulged. Even to the lowliest security guard and examiners received grease money for their sealed lips and closed eyes.  You are called a barbarian if you acted an angel and played saint or ended up six feet below the ground if you play a hero.

In the long run employees succumbed to corruption because there are a lot of corrupt people outside who dangles tantalizing baits that were too hard to refuse. My friend said no one bats an eyelash if an employee opened his desk drawer and an outsider dropped a thick envelop. 

The employees had a high end lifestyle: family outings at posh resorts on weekends and long vacations and trips abroad; expensive and luxurious cars and dream houses, and the most decadent of all is they are flaunting and vying each other of who has the most beautiful paramour and how many.

While writing this piece, I remembered also my friend who works at BOC head office. When I phoned him by landline as there were still no mobile phones at that time that I was in Manila, he was so happy that he invited me to an exclusive girlie bar where Rossana Roces worked and impressed me with his credit line. 

That was one of the privileges of a BOC employees have. And it is only a tip of the ice.

QUOTE OF THE WEEK: Storms are only passing.    