---
layout: post
title: "Earthquake recalled"
category: opinions
image: true
image-cat: 'sundry'
dated: 0ct 15 - 21, 2017
---

Today is the 4th anniversary of the 7.2 M earthquake which devastated half of Bohol last Oct. 15, 2013 with Sagbayan town as its epicenter. The total of personal and infrastructure damage is mind boggling. Four year since, the physical evidence of the earthquake have mostly healed and lost in time, but the trauma remains silently embedded at the psyche of every victim.

The Oct. 15, 2013 earthquake became a landmark in time of most Boholanos. They would ask where were they during that time. Remembering is like prodding a wound that is almost to heal.

Ignorance generates fear. When words flew around that a tsunami would follow after an earthquake, everybody panic and ran to higher grounds. People did not listen when I told them we were safe because the swampland would bear the brunt of the tsunami. The exodus to the mountains was like the scene of the movie Ten Commandments.

Tsunami is a Japanese word for tidal wave which will not hit interior islands like Cebu and Bohol, this I learned when I was still in Grade IV from a Civic book I had read. Tsunamis will hit only provinces facing large open seas like an ocean. From the panic generated by ignorance my townfolk needs to be informed about tsunami.

I had not had my breakfast yet when the quake struck. Hunger made me followmy parents to the mountain at noon. The mountains teemed with people. Every single shade even how small was occupied. It was hard to look for your love ones with so many people around, just like in disaster movies.

There was the problem of sanitation. Everybody defecate in the bushes. If you are not careful you can step on human wastes. There was no privacy.

We were lucky we slept on blue plastic sheets spread on bare grounds because my sisters were teachers and the day before they had scout camping. We had also plastic sheets over our head compared to the others. We slept under the “tugas” tree.

There were strong aftershocks on that night. One felt a large truck rambled underground capped by distant muffled explosion. The big tree which we were under shook so hard as if shaken by unseen hands. The shaking was so strong that its leaves were stripped from its branches and fell in torrents like rain like the song title The Falling Leaves.

We woke up from a restless sleep to face a day of uncertainty. There was no water to drink and bathe, no comfort rooms. We decided to go back to the lowlands for there was scarcity of food that if there were relief goods it was easier to deliver. To fall in line for food was humiliating just like what you see on newspapers and television where Sen. Gordon pose distributing relief goods. The relief goods brought by the Red Cross was consumed in three minutes and there were still hundreds on the line who went home empty handed.

There were donations that came in overwhelming proportions. Relatives near and far and long unheard off sent financial support. The noodles and rice and other basic needs were aplenty that it had reached the next year. We could not forget the newly harvested fresh and pungent rice sent by Dimiao town.

Remembering brings tear to the eye. That fateful day had come a long way and life went on. And memories are like diamonds that last forever.

QUOTE OF THE WEEK: If you are afraid, know what to do and do it.

