---
layout: post
title: '14 versus 21 M'
category: opinions
image: true
image-cat: 'the-kernel'
dated: 0ct 15 - 21, 2017
---

Today, there are 103 million living Filipinos. That is our current estimated population. As of 2017, the poor constitute 21%. That means in every 5 Filipinos 1 is poor. It also means that out of 100 million of us, 21 million are poor.

Based on economic records, there 2,043 billionaires today all over the world. Fourteen (14) of them are Filipinos. They are: Henry Syof SM, John Gokongwei Jr. of Cebu Pacific,Lucio Tan of Fortune Tobacco, George Ty of Metrobank, Enrique Razon Jr. of the International Container Port,Tony Tan Caktiong of Jollibee, David Consunji of DMCI Construction, Andrew Tan of Megaworld, Robert Coyiuto Jr. of PGA Luxury Cars, MannyVillarof Camella, Ramon Ang and DandingCojuangco of San Miguel Corporation, Roberto Ongpin of Alphaland and Edgar Sia of DoubleDragon Properties.

This means that 21 million of us cannot eat three meals per day, while 14 families have too much money and properties that can feed them for many lifetimes even if they do not have to work.

Whose fault is this? Wrong question. The question that should be asked is, “Why is this the situation”?

Even in the entire world situation, the facts will show that the wealth of 8 persons (yes, only 8 persons) are equal to the wealth of one half of the poorest people on Earth. Yes, my friend, eight men own the same wealth as the 3.6 billion people who make up the poorest half of humanity.

These 8 persons are: Bill Gates of Microsoft USA, Amancio Ortega of Spain, Warren Buffett of USA, Carlos Slim Helu of Mexico, Jeff Bezos of Amazon.com USA, Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook USA, Larry Ellison of Oracle USA, and Michael Bloomberg, mayor of New York City.

But, of course, something must be very wrong somewhere here. And there are people responsible. Do not believe the lame excuse that people say when they explain the law of supply and demand as if no one is responsible. Yes, there is a systemic fault here. But the system is perpetuated by people who want this situation to continue as it is.

 Do I mean to say that there is a better system? The answer is a big yes! As I have mentioned in my previous article, the five most peaceful countries in the world are, Iceland, New Zealand, Portugal, Austria, and Denmark. They are not the richest countries in the world. But they are not poor either. These countries use systems where economic, social, political and cultural balance is promoted. Balance is the key.
