---
layout: post
title: "Be strong!"
category: opinions
image: true
image-cat: 'word-on-fire'
dated: 0ct 15 - 21, 2017
archive: true
---

The Gospel of Jesus Christ (Oct. 15, 2017-Sunday)Luke 11:14-23”And He was casting out a demon, and it was mute; when the demon had gone out, the mute man spoke; and the crowds were amazed. But some of them said, "He casts out demons by Beelzebul, the ruler of the demons." Others, to test Him, were demanding of Him a sign from heaven. But He knew their thoughts and said to them, "Any kingdom divided against itself is laid waste; and a house divided against itself falls. If Satan also is divided against himself, how will his kingdom stand? For you say that I cast out demons by Beelzebul. "And if I by Beelzebul cast out demons, by whom do your sons cast them out? So they will be your judges:

No man is an island. You cannot accomplish your dreams alone. You need help from anyone. The nature of God is united like the Holy Triune God. The nature of God is wholesome and not broken. God is intact always no matter what. Any kingdom divided against itself is laid waste; and a house divided against itself falls: United we stand; divided we fall. This means that division is not from God but from devil. God wants us to be united in his flock under his care and guidance. John 10:16”"I have other sheep, which are not of this fold; I must bring them also, and they will hear my voice; and they will become one flock with one shepherd. But it is sad to know that there people around us who are not interested to be in God’s flock. They separated from God intentionally. 1 John 2:19”They went out from us, but they were not really of us; for if they had been of us, they would have remained with us; but they went out, so that it would be shown that they all are not of us.  Hebrews 6:4-6”For in the case of those who have once been enlightened and have tasted of the heavenly gift and have been made partakers of the Holy Spirit, and have tasted the good word of God and the powers of the age to come, and then have fallen away, it is impossible to renew them again to repentance, since they again crucify to themselves the Son of God and put Him to open shame. Anyway, only God can judge them at the end. On the other side, Despite of Jesus miraculous act towards the possessed person, still he was accused of being a demon’s advocate. I know some of us experience to be accused for different nonsense things. Do not let yourself to be ruined by that negative attack. Be strong!

