---
layout: post
title: '13,000 lives'
category: opinions
image: true
image-cat: 'the-kernel'
dated: Nov 05 - 11, 2017
---

A 17 year-old boy who loves his parents, diligent at school and helpful at home, reportedly got shot three times, once at the back of his heart and two on his head at close range. Experts found him negative of gunpowder. Therefore, he could not have used any gun.

Pres. Duterte and Gen. Bato both said it does not matter whether it was drug-related or not. If he did not resist arrest, then he should not have been killed. I agree. Sadly though, he was not the first young casualty of this so-called drug war. There had been many others. 

The youngest victim was Danica Mae Garcia, 5 years old, whose case remains unsolved until today. She was killed a year ago by bullets meant for her grandfather who was included in a drugwatch list in Dagupan City. Danica was then with her cousins preparing to attend her afternoon classes in a nearby public school when gunmen fired at her grandpa.The total casualties are now allegedly totaling more than 13 thousand lives.

Ezra Acayan, a freelance photojournalist, said he has covered 400 cases of extra-judicial killings throughout the country. And all those cases were from poor communities and slum areas, none from well-off subdivisions or villages. Is it true that this drug war only kills the poor? Is it true that lowly pushers and users get killed but big-time drug lords get away? I hope not.

On a lighter note, ABS-CBN has reported that the TagbilaranCity PNP has never had any youth or child casualty in its campaign against illegal drugs. That should give Boholanos a great sigh of relief. 

By the way, the name KIAN DE LOS SANTOS also means “an enduring saint”.

Meanwhile, TARSIER 117 personnel have reported that based on their experiences, motor vehicle accidents usually multiply during fiestas. Meaning, many Boholanos drink and drive during these occasions. We should learn from this.

This week’s quote comes from Dietrich Bonhoeffer, a German Christian nonviolent activist who sacrificed his life to resist the Nazi dictatorship of Hitler:“We must learn to regard people less in light of what they do or omit to do, and more in the light of what they suffer”.