---
layout: post
title: 'Honey'
category: opinions
image: true
image-cat: 'sundry'
dated: Nov 05 - 11, 2017
---

The other day my cousin from Manila phoned me that she wants to send me pure and fresh honey from the mountains of Bohol.
“How fast you have consumed the two bottles you had brought!” I exclaimed incredibly.

She related: Upon her arrival from Bohol she placed the bottles of honey on her dining table. Upon waking up in the morning, ants were crawling all over the bottles. She wiped them off and to be safe from the ants she placed the bottles on the window sill of their dining room. 

She forgot the honey until there was a very loud explosion and when she went to investigate she saw splinters of glass all over and the spilled honey. The guards of her condominium told her honey explodes if exposed to sunlight when placed on airtight containers.

To test if the honey is really pure, dip a match stick onto it and strike it with the match, if the match stick lights up, it means it is a pure honey and not adulterated, my cousin informed me.

Honey could not be hand carried on commercial flights. They are to be checked in as cargo. The bottles are to be packed inside Styrofoam boxes and sealed tightly so that it will not explode at the pressurized cargo holds.

Honey is the only food consumed by humans that is produced by insects. It comes from the nectar of flowers collected by honeybees. Honey differs in flavors depending on the type of flowers where the bees gathered nectar.

Colors of honey range from colorless to dark brown, and the flavors differ from mild to bold. Lighter-colored honeys are mild tasting while dark-colored honeys are bold-tasting. Honeys are sweeter than table sugar, due to its fructose content.

Honey is a rich source of carbohydrates considering its sugars fructose and glucose content. The other carbohydrates found in honey are sucrose, maltose and more other complex carbohydrates. On average, honey is about 17 per cent water.

In addition, honey contains a small amount of a wide array of vitamins, minerals and amino acids. It also functions as antioxidants that compound that delay damage to cells or tissues to the body.

There were grants from the Department of Agriculture before to those who want to culture and farm honeybees for honey production, but only a few avail of the program. Those who availed did not last long in their operations. Our honey vendors prefer to rob hives. They do it by using a torch as the smoke neutralizes the bees. This is the method they deprived the bees of their honey. 

QUOTE OF THE WEEK:  Diamonds and memories are the only things that last in the world. 
