---
layout: post
title: 'The CIA'
category: opinions
image: true
image-cat: 'sundry'
archive: true
dated: Aug 20 - 26, 2017
---

The other day, I met a friend of mine from college days. He was known to be a student activist in our time. Our college days were during the waning years of the Marcos regime when there was student unrest nationwide.

It had been a long time I did not meet him, and I suspected his youth activism was made into a full time career in one of the factories in Cebu being a labor union leader. I love his in depth knowledge of history and analysis of current events and his foresight.

 I asked him: Why is it that the murder of Sen. Benigno Aquino, Sr. has not been solve, despite that his widow and son became presidents of the Philippines?

 “Because his murder was the handiwork of the CIA which operates surgically clean and precise.”

The Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) is the principal intelligence and counter intelligence body of America.

He went on: It was also the CIA who killed Pres. Ramon Magsaysay by planting a bomb on his plane which crashed in the mountains of Cebu in 1957.

He explained: The CIA does not like presidents who are popular with the people, with a firm stance and mind of their own which America can not handle. They will get rid of them.

“They will get rid of Pres. Duterte, not by assassination, but by impeachment with extrajudicial killings as the premise.” he confided.

The CIA does not like Duterte because he befriended with Russia and China, my friend said. The CIA has plans to assassinate Prof. Jose Ma. Sison  who is in exile in the Netherlands because Duterte listens to his advice being his law school professor.

America is apprehensive that Duterte is buying guns from Russia and China, my friend said. My friend laughed that our soldiers would no longer be sporting Armalite, but the Russian AK 14 because as Pres. Duterte said Armalites are old and outmoded.

Last Monday our country recalled the death anniversary of Sen. Benigno Aquino by being a holiday through a proclamation by Pres. Duterte. Aquino, even in his death was not accepted by the Cojuangco Clan of Pampanga. The shot at the then Manila International Airport was heard around the world which led ultimately to the downfall of Pres. Ferdinand E. Marcos who was suspected as the mastermind of the assassination of Aquino.

QUOTE OF THE WEEK: A lazy man works best when the sun is on the west.   
