---
layout: post
title: 'Do not desire earthly reward'
category: opinions
image: true
image-cat: 'word-on-fire'
dated: Sept 24 - 30, 2017
---

The Gospel of Jesus Christ (Sept. 24, 2017- Sunday) Matthew 1:18-24- Then Joseph her husband, being a just [man], and not willing to make her a public example, was minded to put her away privately. But while he thought on these things, behold, the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a dream, saying, Joseph, thou son of David, fear not to take unto thee Mary thy wife: for that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Ghost. And she shall bring forth a son, and thou shall call his name JESUS: for he shall save his people from their sins. Now all this was done, that it might be fulfilled which was spoken of the Lord by the prophet, saying, Behold, a virgin shall be with child, and shall bring forth a son, and they shall “call” his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted is, God with us. Then Joseph being raised from sleep did as the angel of the Lord had bidden him, and took unto him his wife:

This gospel reminds us about the courage and bravery of Joseph to take the great responsibility as the “El Salvador” of Mary from shamefulness. Look, Joseph never resisted from the instruction of God for him to fulfill since he is very obedient to God. This is our individual calling to protect anyone from danger and to ensure that this person will have a better future. You are accountable to the progress and downfalls of everyone. You are called to save others like Joseph. He was an ordinary man and called to do an extra ordinary thing for us to be saved. Be sure that his will is done and fulfilled on this earth. You are called to become an implementer. You are called to make things happen. You are chosen to become productive for the welfare of others. You are born for a great reason to do and complete on this earth. Imitate Joseph; he was quiet in doing the will of God of his life. Not necessarily to boast our efforts and achievement because our living God sees everything.

 Matthew 6:2"So when you give to the poor, do not sound a trumpet before you, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, so that they may be honoured by men. Truly I say to you, they have their reward in full.This means that no need to do something publicly if the fact, you can do it privately. Do not desire earthly reward but a divine reward that never fades. Without Joseph, salvation will become impossible because he was the savior’s protector. This means if ever you see a certain individual who has a calling to fulfill, protect and assist him in order that he can perform it very well and easy with your help and cooperation. Do not escape from your obligation in life; Joseph did it first because he misunderstood Mary for betraying him. Sometimes we have the same minds, wrong judgments and perceptions of the people around us.  Anyway, there is no late in repenting and transforming your attitudes like Joseph did in saving Mary and Jesus .

